Hi friends,

This session is about the game development environment Unity.
Unity is one of the most popular game development environment. One of the best example of most 
successive game builded using Unity is PUBG. 
I mentioned PUBG because it is even popular for children also.

Let's see what basically Unity is.
It is a cross-platform game engine developed by unity technologies.
It was released in June 2005 at Apple Inc's Worldwide Developers Conference as a Mac OS X-Exclusive game 
engine. Till now it extends to support more that 25 platforms. 
It can be used to create 3D, 2D, virtual reality and augmented reality games as well as simulations.
Apart from Video gaming, other industries such as film, automotive, architecture, engineering etc are using it.

The important components/ features of unity are

1. All-in-one editor
	It provides user friendly tools for designing
	Strong suite of developer tools for implementing logic and high performance gameplay
2. 2D & 3D	
	It supports both 2D and 3D as per specific needs across genres
3. AI pathfinding tools
	The inbuilt navigation system allows the developer to create NPCs that intelligently move around the
	game environment.
4. Efficient Workflows
	Preconfigured Game objects which is called as Unity prefabs allows you create efficient and flexible 
	workflows.
5. User Interfaces
	The built in User interface options helps to create the game interface fast
6. Physics Engines
	Inbuilt physices engines helps to create highly realistic and high performance gameplay
7. Custom tools
	According to the need the developer can create or add customized extensions. Lots of custimized
	extensions are available at Unity Asset store. These helps to speed up the development time of projects


Now we got a basic idea of What Unity is?
Now we will look into how to install and configure the Unity.

Unity can be downloaded from the official website.
There are 4 versions of Unity is avilable.
We need to download Free version since we are using it for educational purpose.
While installing the Unity the user should have unity account to install.

Hence it is required to create the unity account.

The installation file will install Unity hub which is a software to manage installing different versios of unity
as well as to manage the projects.

Now we have successfully installed unity.
Here I will be talking mostly on Unity2D. 
It is almost similar for Unity3D also. Only exist some changes in the game objects and manging scenes

The unity interface is mainly divided into 8 parts

1. Scene view
	It is where you construct you game. Add models, cameras and other objects required for the game.
	While testing the game the scene will update itself current game state and we can add new elements
	while the game is running. But, once we stop the game the scene will be reverted to its original state and 
	will lose the elements added while game was running.
2. Game View
	It represents the player perspective of game. It enables the player to play the game. We can change the
	aspect ratio of view as oer our need. This allows to test that the game is working fine in all resolutions
	We can add custom aspect ratio by clicking the plus button at the bottom of the dropdown
3. Hierarchy Window
	It shows the structure of all current game objects used in the game.
4. Project Window
	It contains all the assets used by you game. Assets can be organized as per the developer needs.
5. Inspector Window
	It lets you configure any game object. When we select the game object the inspector will list all
	the components and properties associated with that game object.
6. Toolbar
	Tool bar  is used to manipulate the game objects in the scene view
7. Button area
	It is used to start, pause and stop the game.
8. Miscellaneous Editor Settings
	It handle the miscellaneous aspects of the toolbar
	collab - helps big teams collaborate on a single project seamlessly
	Services - we can add additional unity services to the game
	Account - It lets us to manage our unity account
	Layers - it can be used to prevent the the rendering of GameObjects, or excluding GameObjects 
		from physics events like collisions.
	Layouts - It helps to create and save the layout of views in out editor and switch between them

Lets see how we will put these concepts into practice.